[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The Tibetan Lamas of Drepung
Loseling perform [NON-ENGLISH],,
a song for world peace.
>> [TIBETAN SINGING]
>> In 1959, with the
Chinese invasion,
the monks were forced from
their monastery in Tibet.
A small number fled
to India, where
they constructed a replica
of their own monastery
and rebuilt their way of life.
>> [TIBETAN SINGING]
>> In recent years, these artist
holy men have toured the globe,
dedicating their
performances to world peace.
In 1989, their spiritual leader,
His Holiness the Dalai Lama,
was awarded the
Nobel Peace Prize.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Let's begin with
a simple question.
What is a Buddhist?
>> What is a Buddhist?
>> Yes.
>> Well, a Buddhist can be
pretty much whatever they want
to be, you could say in general.
Technically, you
would say a Buddhist
is a person who has
taken refuge in the three
jewels of the Buddha, who
is the teacher of the way
to enlightenment; the Dharma,
which is enlightenment itself,
and the reality
that underlies it
and the reality that
it enfolds our lives;
and the Sangha is the
community of those
who are seeking that same way.
So a Buddhist is one
who has taken refuge
with those three jewels.
They are jewels because they
are so valuable and rare in sort
of the ocean of life's
possibilities, you could say.
That's a Buddhist.
>> It is interesting to me
that, despite the huge variety
of religions we have in America,
and so many of them so old
and so powerful, so strong--
>> Right.
>> --so many millions of
Americans are attracted
to Buddhism these days.
Why do you suppose that is?
>> Well, I think because
Buddhism is basically a way
to freedom.
The reason you take refuge
in those three jewels
is that you want to find
freedom from suffering, freedom
from sort of being
caught automatically
in involuntary responses
and sort of bondage
to this and that drives and
reactions and things like that.
And people in America, we
sort of admire freedom.
It's a constitutional right of
ours to have it and seek it.
We don't really necessarily
know what it is.
But we vaguely feel that
if we have more of it,
we'll be more happy.
And so since Buddhism is a
sort of technical inner way
to freedom, it kind
of fits with our sense
of the outer world-- you know,
our notion of political freedom
and freedom of the individual,
this sort of thing.
Buddhism is very,
very suited for that.
And it's a method of
how to achieve that.
And people are attracted to it.
>> I think a lot of Americans
are quite misinformed about
what's happening in Tibet.
>> Oh, that's totally true.
>> And it occurs to me
that one of the reasons
they're misinformed is they say,
what does it have to do with
me?
I live in Boston.
>> Right.
>> What does it
have to do with me?
I live in Washington.
>> Right.
Ask not for whom the
bell tolls, right?
It tolls for thee.
>> It does.
>> We love freedom.
We think our American
dream is based on freedom.
We cannot have freedom when
anyone doesn't have freedom.
That's the amazing, strange,
paradoxical, and unfortunate
imperative that the
American people live with.
For example, we've never
really realized our freedom
here because the signers of
our Declaration of Independence
were slave owners.
And also, their women
didn't vote at that time.
And that was not real freedom.
It was freedom amongst a
certain collegiality but not
real freedom.
Then we went through
the Civil War.
We went through the feminist
movement-- you know,
the universal suffrage,
et cetera, et cetera.
But still, now we are
imprisoning up to 2 million
of our members of other races.
We have privatized
the prison industry.
We're sending them up.
We don't build any schools
in the inner cities.
We are as bad or worse than
South Africa in apartheid
and, in fact, now.
And therefore, we feel paranoid.
We don't feel free, even still.
Even we talk about freedom
and the new age whatever,
but we actually are
living in a society
where the injustices committed
to the first Americans,
the Native Americans,
the broken treaties,
the injustices committed
to the black Americans,
the slavery and now
the ghettoization
and the imprisonment,
is still going on.
And we will not be free.
And Tibet, although as the
other side of the planet,
ironically, is also a jail
of our own supporting.
The Russians in
the early '90s did
what the renowned
politickers in our country
said would never
happen and based
our whole military industrial
complex on the fact
that it would never happen.
The Russians gave
up without a fight.
They let go of Eastern Europe.
They said, forget it.
This life of armament
is not worth it.
We want to have some Mickey
Mouse, some TV, some pleasure,
a decent ice box.
Forget about it.
America is not the deadly enemy.
We're not going to
live like this anymore.
Then let's join the free
world type of thing.
That's what we've been
hoping for actually.
What do we do?
Very little help
to them actually.
The Chinese refuse to do that.
They killed their students
in Tiananmen Square and all
over China, not just in Beijing.
They killed anybody
who spoke for freedom.
And then what do we do?
We invested hundreds of
billions of dollars in them
since then, because our
elite is afraid of freedom.
We are afraid of our American
Dream, our own leadership.
So Tibet is so
crucial because Tibet
shows if we can
liberate Tibet, we
liberate the Chinese from that
oligarchy that is supporting
the Chinese, which our industry,
military industrial complex,
is supporting.
And then we free ourselves
from the same people.
>> Indeed.
>> We get rid of them.
We convert those prisons back
to schools for the ghettos.
We educate the people
as youths, rather than
let them grow up
ignorant and alienated
and then lure them into
obviously committing crime
and then arrest them, which is
what we're doing with them now,
you know.
>> So it is such
a ripple effect?
>> It's a whole ripple effect.
That's why our Peacemaking,
Power of Non-Violence
Conference in San Francisco that
Tibet house did was so powerful
because--
>> Indeed it was.
>> --there was a moment where
all the losers on the planet
had a moment of
shared connection--
the losers in the
American inner cities
with the losers in the
international world
of the so-called
non-existent Tibetans,
who are being genocided because
the world has decided they
don't exist.
The UN won't consider
that they exist
for fear of offending China.
And those losers suddenly
embraced each other.
The meek inherited the
earth, as Jesus said.
But of course it was temporary.
And it was only a
foretaste of what
will happen whenever the
inner revolution emerges
into the open and people are
confident enough about it
and determined enough about
it to really take action.
18% of college-age students
vote in this country, only 18%.
>> Tragic.
>> 38% of the total
electorate maximum votes.
So naturally, we
are a country that
is run by an oligarchy
that does not
have the interests of 100%
of the people at its heart.
>> You do know that your passion
for this is extraordinarily
enrolling.
People watching this broadcast
will say, OK, what do I do?
How can one person begin
to make a difference?
Because I believe one person
can make a difference.
>> You're absolutely right.
I believe so too.
And of course, the first
thing that person can do
is recognize and
take responsibility
that they make a difference.
>> Yes.
>> I have noticed in talking in
America that the more powerful
a person is, the less they
think they make a difference.
The more strongly
they argue the fact
that I don't make a
difference, nothing I could do
would help, the more
ability they have to help.
And America, for
example, as a whole,
is more than any country,
shown by the voting rate,
that has decided its middle
classes, we can't do anything.
And America sits.
And by not doing anything,
what you do in America
is you totally add
to the problem.
You're consuming the
energy of the world.
You're polluting the world.
Your investments
abroad are supporting
the tyrants and the torturers
and the non unionizing
work factories, slave
drivers and so forth.
You're supporting all of that
when you don't do anything.
And yet, America has the power.
If America could force
its State Department
to make human rights part
of its Commerce Department,
that would make
a vast difference
in many parts of the world.
And so the first
thing we do, simply,
is take responsibility that
what we do absolutely matters.
And the second thing
everyone would do
is register to vote and vote.
My wife is Swedish.
And she never tires of
telling me that in Sweden,
in any election, 98.5%
of the population
votes that is eligible to vote.
And therefore, they
have a government that
cares about most of the people.
They don't always
do everything right.
They're not perfect.
They have a different
country with different kinds
of problems.
But they don't have a government
that radically does not
reflect the will of the majority
of its people, as ours does.
Although we want our democracy,
but it is not a democracy
when 38% vote.
Then 20% of the people
can dominate the 100%.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> First of all, what I'd
like to do is just find
a comfortable position on your
chair which allows you to keep
your back upright.
And if you get too comfortable,
you could fall asleep.
So you want to have a little
bit of energy to the positions.
And just notice for
a moment if there's
any tension in your body.
And if you feel that
tension, you can just either
move a little to release it.
And sometimes it helps to take
a few deep breaths and just--
[EXHALES]
--to relax the body,
relax the mind.
There are two main places
that we can notice the breath.
One is in the abdomen.
And the other is
up at the nostrils.
So just sort of check it out.
Where do you feel the breath?
And just let the mind
very gently rest there.
Just try to really notice all
of the sensations associated
with the breath.
When you've noticed that your
mind goes off into a thought--
even if it's five minutes
of a thought, three minutes,
one minute--
whatever it is, oh, you've
noticed you're thinking,
then come right
back to the breath.
So you may at times begin
to notice other things.
There might be sounds that
take you away, sensations
in your body, emotions.
When you notice these things,
if they're really strong,
you can just pay attention
to them for a moment or two.
And when it's changed,
return to the breathing.
[CHIME]
>> There's a tremendous
amount of peace available
in the present moment.
So much of the stresses
and the overwhelm,
it's almost all about
the future or the past.
You know, it's not happening
right here, right now.
So just coming back
through walking,
through practicing mindfulness--
just coming back to that place,
that natural place of being,
in the state of true nature
or whatever you want to call
it of just who we really are
beyond the planning
and the remembering--
just being right
here, right now.
So the walking practice
is a wonderful way
to do that, the sitting
practice, yoga, Tai Chi--
all of these different--
ways of stopping.
Not necessarily
stopping movement,
but stopping the leaning
forward into the next moment
or leaning backwards
into the last one.
Trying to just really be
the present with what's
happening right now and
accessing that deep place
within us that is all-knowing
and is experiencing each thing
as it comes and
as it goes, trying
not to grasp to it
too tightly and trying
not to push it away too
strongly, and just kind
of the acceptance of what
arises and passes away,
the awareness of that.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So what I'm seeing here is
on your right, it's very square.
And so your forehead tends
to be more square than round.
And so this indicates that
your career could almost
become your hobby if
you're not careful.
>> Well, that's very good.
Naomi Tickle practices the
ancient art and modern science
of personology.
In her work, she identifies
facial characteristics
that correlate to different
types of personalities.
In other words, Naomi
Tickle is a face reader.
How long has face
reading been around?
>> Well, it's been
around forever and ever.
And actually, you
can take it back
to Pythagoras who is well
known for his studies
in structure function
relationship.
And it was in the 1930s
that Edward Jones, who
was a judge in Los
Angeles, he came up
with the system we use today.
And they developed it for
career guidance, communications,
relationships,
personal development.
>> Relationships?
How would it be
for relationships?
>> It helps in relationships to
understand each other better.
So much of it comes
from misunderstanding.
I've had couples in who've
been at each other's throats.
And just by having a
better understanding
of each other and
their traits, it's
completely returned the
relationship around.
>> And how accurate
is it, do you find?
>> It's about 92% accuracy.
>> Ah, 92%?
That's astonishing.
>> It is astonishing.
And I never fail to be
amazed by the accuracy.
And the feedback
from the clients
is that sometimes
they say 96% accuracy.
>> Well, let's see how
accurate you are with me.
I'll be a Guinea pig for you.
Will you read my face?
>> I'd love to.
Now, the exposed
eyelids, these indicate--
this is like Madeleine
Albright and Hillary Clinton--
like to get to the bottom line.
Never mind the questions,
just get to the point.
And then in here.
This is where we
see tactfulness.
And actually, there is a tactful
side to you, which is great.
Now, this eyebrow that
sweeps up like this, this
has to do with drama, the love
of drama, going to the theater.
It's almost you come
alive when you're there.
>> So it's true.
>> Being onstage.
Now, you have these very low-set
ears in here, very low set
on the face-- so
very idealistic,
high expectations of
yourself and of other people,
and can be very
demanding at times.
So be kind to yourself,
not be so hard.
Something else I also
noticed is you have
these wonderful cheekbones--
love to travel.
>> Thank you.
>> Love to travel,
love to change--
fun to be with because you
like to do the unexpected.
>> You have to be a little
bit of a psychologist as well
as a face reader
when you do this.
>> That and personal coaching.
I use a lot of that in this.
We use it for team building
in businesses which enhance
the communications there.
>> Well, it's fascinating.
And I thank you, Naomi.
>> Thank you.
>> Naomi Tickle.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Recently, as I've heard your
name, people most always say,
she changed my life, what
happened to you that would
bring you to this work?
>> I was lying on a
floor one morning.
And I opened my eyes.
And it's as though there was
this thing awake inside of me.
I call it inquiry.
And just clear.
So people would say, what
is this change in you?
And I would say,
well, it's clear.
And the words for
that thing alive in me
come out like what I
call four questions.
And I can pass it on because
it's become tangible.
Once I put the inquiry alive in
me into a tangible position--
four questions-- we
can all understand it.
If it weren't so simple, I would
not have found it inside of me.
So it's easy to transfer.
And that's what this
little book is about.
What I say is judge
your neighbor.
Write it down.
Ask four questions.
Turn it around.
And that's all.
>> That's all the work is?
That's the work.
So the work is four questions.
So you judge your neighbor--
an example would be.
My husband should
pick up his socks.
He should just simply pick
his socks up off the floor.
>> All right.
>> I work so hard.
He doesn't appreciate me.
I can just go on and on.
I remember well.
So today, when he leaves his
socks lying on the floor,
I feel this humor inside
of me, this laughter
and this connection with him,
rather than a separation.
And it's due to inquiry.
I like to say my religion
was my husband should pick up
his socks.
>> Because that's what
someone strongly believes.
It's like when someone has
an opinion about something,
or someone, let's
say, in their lives,
because I think
most people watching
this broadcast would say, I'm
struggling in a relationship.
My boyfriend won't
be tender with me.
>> Yes.
>> OK, let's say
that hypothetically.
So that makes you furious.
That makes you angry.
>> Yes.
>> What do you do with it?
How do you get to the
point where it's humorous?
>> So I invite people
to write it down.
>> OK, so I write it down.
>> My boyfriend should be--
again?
>> Tender.
>> Tender, OK.
And I say, what's
the reality of it?
Is he?
You know, sometimes he's not.
I hear you tell me that.
Sometimes he is not tender.
You want him to be tender.
So is it true he
should be tender?
Can you really know
that that's true?
And where I go with that is,
can I really know more than God?
And that would be the
God of my understanding,
not the world's or
the other way around.
And I have to tell myself,
no, I can't no more.
My husband should be tender.
I'll put it there.
Can I really know
that that's true?
Can I really know that
that's best for him
or me in the long run?
I like to say I'm not
running this show.
Everything is as it should be.
I have a thing that
says no mistake
inside of me, no mistake.
So then the second
question is how do I react
when I think that thought?
How do I react when I have the
thought I want him to be tender
and he's not?
Well, I treat him like a
second-rate citizen, not kind.
I become pouty or I isolate.
I freeze him out, punish
him in some way, manipulate.
So then the last
question is, who would I
be without the thought
I want him to be tender?
And I become very tender.
I become the experience
of unconditional love.
>> I think in theory,
as you tell me that,
it is perfectly clear to
me and perfectly logical.
But putting it into practice,
Katie, that's very hard.
I think men and women
all over America
are misunderstanding
each other and fighting.
And just to hear
it, it's not enough.
But something happens
in your workshops.
>> Yes, it does.
>> What happens?
>> I cannot make myself treat
my husband better consistently.
I cannot do that.
And somehow, when I take
these concepts to paper
and I apply the
questions, it changes.
I don't change.
I don't change it.
I change.
And that's what
people are getting--
thousands and thousands
all over this planet.
Now, this simple inquiry, it's
like a doing is taking over.
And I call the doing
goodness and understanding
and unconditional love.
Mostly I call it
simple understanding.
But yeah, it's
pretty interesting.
To ask and meet
the concept you're
attached to with understanding
is the end of suffering.
And I don't know why it is.
I only know that it is.
>> It's interesting, isn't it?
Sometimes things are so simple
that they're complicated.
>> Yes.
Yeah, people take
this work, and they
say I can get this
with my mind, but I
can't get it with my heart.
Well, heart is just
another concept.
Get it with your mind.
What else are you dealing with?
What else is there?
So it's where the mind meets
the mind with understanding
and confusion is
the only suffering.
And what we're doing here is
we are getting a clear look,
the opposite of confusion.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> OK so let's a moment
to the little cards--
the advice cards,
the should cards--
where it says, who
could use your advice?
Do you have children, a spouse,
friend, neighbor, brother,
sister, parent?
Who could use your advice?
The world?
Do you have some
good advice today?
>> People should not
be so judgmental.
>> Exactly so.
And the next?
>> My friend Diana should be
more responsible for her own
life.
>> So each time you hear these,
go to the place where you know
someone like this in your life,
>> People shouldn't complain.
>> People should be
more open-minded.
>> My ex-husband should
quit feeling guilty.
>> People shouldn't be so angry.
>> Yes.
So we have heard what I
refer to as our religion.
[LAUGHTER]
People should not be so angry.
OK.
So get a should
in your mind, one
that could really serve you in
your life to work with today.
OK, so let's hear it.
>> People shouldn't be so angry.
>> Is that true?
What is the reality of it?
Are we?
>> Yes.
>> So the next question
is, number two,
can you really know that it's
true that people should not be
angry?
This work does not have a motive
to lead you into any direction.
It has no interest in it.
This is inquiry.
Can you really know
that we should not
be so angry on this planet?
Just a question.
Can you really know that
people should not be so angry?
And are we angry sometimes?
>> (TOGETHER) Yes.
>> There you have it.
This work is just too simple.
It's just a question.
Just a question, not serious--
go in or not.
How do you react when you
attach to the thought,
people should not be
so angry, and we are?
>> You get angry.
>> You get angry, yeah.
>> So much for religion.
This is our religion.
This is what we're attached
to-- people should not be angry.
Ha.
[EXHALES] It was me.
So again, how do you react
when you think that thought,
and we're angry?
>> Do not become angry.
>> So what do you do when you're
angry, and we're still angry--
how do you treat us?
>> With anger.
>> And when that doesn't
work, then what do you do?
Angrier, calm down--
>> Ignore.
>> Walk away.
>> Walk away, isolate.
Can you see a reason to drop
this theory, this concept,
people should not be angry?
And I'm not asking
you to drop it.
I don't mess with
people's religion.
[LAUGHTER]
You know how we get when
you mess with our religion.
[LAUGHTER]
Angry, or we walk away.
Just simply, can you see a
reason to drop the story,
people should not be angry?
>> I would have to say that
it's just because it continues
the anger, but--
>> There's a reason.
There's a reason.
There's a good reason
to drop the anger.
You get angry when we are angry.
You get caught in your game.
>> Yeah.
>> Can you see one reason that
is not stressful to keep this
concept, this belief,
people should not be angry?
And again, I'm not
asking you to drop it.
Sometimes anger is a good thing.
Can you really know
that that's true?
Can you really know that you
would not accomplish more
without the anger and the
energy that extends to that?
And you could be right.
And I'm asking you for
one that's not stressful.
So sweetheart, who would
you be without that myth?
>> Real.
>> People should not be angry.
Turn it around.
I-- what is the turnaround of
people should not be angry?
I?
>> I am?
Is that what you're--
>> I should not be angry.
Thank you, sweetheart.
>> OK.
>> People should not be angry.
How many hundreds and
hundreds and hundreds of years
have we continued to
attach to that concept,
and it hasn't worked yet?
I should not be angry.
Let it begin with me.
Whose business is your anger?
If you had to say one of three,
three kinds of business-- mine,
yours, and God's, and that's
the God of your understanding,
certainly not mine--
whose business is your anger?
>> Mine.
>> You noticed.
It's yours.
It comes from inside of you.
And that's where
it's experienced.
Whose business is
the world's anger?
>> Everyone's.
>> I found that
when I am mentally
in my husband's business, I
feel loneliness just like that.
And I figured it out.
He's over there
running his life.
I'm over there running
his life mentally.
Well, there is no
one here for me.
Of course I'm lonely.
And I'm running
the world's life.
People should not be angry.
My husband should understand me.
My children should.
Lonely, lonely, lonely,
separate, isolated, depressed.
And when I began to notice,
it would bring me back.
Any time you feel
lonely, frightened,
ask yourself mentally
whose business are you in?
But we keep trying to change
them for our own comfort.
And then we won't be lonely.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So I'm going to spin what's
called a worsted-type yarn.
And what this does is
it spins the fiber.
I'm Rachel Hendrickson.
My husband, Mark, and I
own the Heartland Ranch,
which we run with my
sister-in-law, Leslie.
And we raise alpacas.
We looked into exotic
livestock, like red deer,
elk, ostriches, emus, and I
wasn't interested in anything
where the only way that I could
profit was to kill the animals.
And alpacas were
the perfect answer.
We're able to make
a living off of them
because their raw
fiber sells for more
in its raw, dirty form--
this is raw, dirty fiber--
than what it costs me to
maintain the animal each year.
What I'm doing with
my left hand is
I'm controlling the amount
of spin that's on the fiber,
because I don't want
it to get ropey.
And what I'm doing
with my right hand
is I'm drawing the
fiber out so it's not
too thick and not too thin.
The way it's different
from sheep wool
is it doesn't have lanolin.
There's no smell.
Sheep wool has an odor to it.
That's the lanolin.
And the lanolin is greasy,
and it collects dirt.
So that if you were
a sheep farmer,
and you were going
to share your sheep,
you have to scour the lanolin
in acids to remove it.
And that's putting a
chemical on the fiber
and into your environment
that you wouldn't
need to have if you had alpaca.
Well, she's weaving.
This is one of the
simplest kinds of looms.
It's called the
rigid heddle loom.
How long ago did you
start weaving, Kirsten?
>> About 5 minutes.
>> About 5 minutes ago.
So I was just teasing her.
I said, it obviously doesn't
take a genius to weave.
And my sister-in-law
said, well, that must
be why I do it so much then.
[LAUGHTER]
These are handspun
and hand-woven
by a group of Quechua
Indians on the banks
of Lake Titicaca in Peru.
They do these sweaters.
They do these scarves.
They do gloves.
They do hats.
And it's all handspun,
natural colors, hand knit,
and they're all one of a kind.
When I can sit up
on my porch, and I
can look out over the
fields and see the animals,
they come in 22 natural colors.
And I've got more than one
of each color on this chart.
They're like M&Ms. You know,
you can't have just two or three
colors.
You've got to have them all.
And I look out
there, and I see all
these beautiful, gentle,
intelligent animals.
And I'm thinking, they're paying
for me to be able to live here.
And that's really
cool, because I
get to live in a place that's
about as close to heaven
as anything you
can find on Earth.
And these animals
pay me to do it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I wonder how many people
really do know exactly what
a clairvoyant is.
Because we say the word a lot--
>> Right, it's a stereotype.
>> --and we hear it.
And there is a stereotype.
>> Yes, there is.
>> Thank you.
>> Yeah.
No, the woman with the big hoop
earrings and the crystal wall.
>> Yes, I see your future.
So what is a
clairvoyant exactly?
>> Well, there's four ways
that we get divine messages.
And the most common are
through our feelings-- physical
feelings or emotional
feelings, for instance.
And the second way is
through our thoughts.
The other two ways we
get divine guidance
are through things we hear
as an inner or an outer voice
or things we see,
either in our minds are
or with our physical side.
Now, clairvoyance
could be very common,
but most people are
afraid of ghosts.
And that's what keeps them
from seeing beyond the veil.
And as a psychologist,
I've spent
years teaching and
studying how to help people
to break through those fears.
Because I find that most people
would love to see an angel
or would love to see an
apparition of a deceased
loved one or Jesus
or ascended master.
So I found that
when I help people
to break through the
barrier of the fear,
the clairvoyance is naturally
just below the surface.
And because I
don't have fears, I
see angels and departed loved
ones around a lot of people.
>> Do you think we're all
clairvoyant on some level?
>> Yes, I do.
And in fact, I've seen studies.
For instance, Dr. Daryl
Bem of Cornell University--
he's a professor
of engineering-- he
was initially a skeptic
about telepathic abilities
and clairvoyance.
And he ran what was supposed
to be the ultimate test.
And the methodology was
as tight as it could get.
He ran the study
11 different times.
And every time, the study came
up with the same conclusion--
that everyone, regardless of
age, gender or background,
had the ability to be
accurate in clairvoyance.
>> Wow.
>> And that study actually has
led to more scientists right
now believing in clairvoyance
and telepathy than the average
person on the street.
>> It's interesting, isn't it?
And you'd be the perfect
person to confirm this,
that science has become
so much more interesting
in your kind of work.
>> Yes, that's right.
>> Literally, when
I first met you,
and probably 10
years before that,
people really thought of
you as a woo-woo girl.
>> They did.
And the scientific
work that was done
was very skewed by
scientists who had a bent
to prove that they believed.
So now what we're
getting is we're
getting skeptical scientists
doing the measuring.
And they're the ones who have
the most interesting studies,
because they're
the ones who have
a vested interest in
disproving psychic abilities.
And so when they
come up with data
that supports strong evidence
beyond statistical chance
that there is psychic
abilities in everyone,
we all stand up and take notice.
>> How do you tell people
to differentiate between
their guide's voice, the
angel's voice, and their own.
Well it's a subtle distinction.
But it's very much like when
you pick up the telephone,
you pretty quickly know if
it's someone familiar to you
or whether it's a stranger
or a telephone solicitor.
And it's the same kind
of getting used to
and adapting to the
characteristics of true divine
guidance.
Number one, true divine
guidance is repetitive.
It'll tell you the same thing
over and over and over again.
Where false guidance,
or your imagination,
will change its mind
pretty impetuously.
True guidance is
always very centered
around selfless service.
It talks about how
everyone's going to win,
how we can take our natural
passions and interests
and use them to help the world.
Where false guidance
always is about separation.
It wants to make one person
better than the other.
In other words, you might
get an imagination that says,
this will elevate you above
others and make you the hero.
Now, true guidance
is going to give you
guidance that will ultimately
help you to have abundance.
And maybe you will get fame
and fortune along with that.
But true guidance
would never ever
talk about that as
its central topic.
False guidance
also puts us down.
It's abusive.
It's critical.
And it makes us doubt ourself.
Where true guidance
is like a motivator.
It's like the greatest
coach in the world and says,
you can do it.
It pushes us beyond our
comfort zone very often.
And I think that's what
makes people nervous.
When I do an angel
reading on someone,
the most common comment
I get is, I knew that.
I really felt that all along.
>> How interesting.
>> And they needed another
person to validate it for them.
My hope is that we'll all
learn to give ourselves
our own validation
and just follow
our guidance without delay.
>> Is there a different story
in between guides and angels,
and what is it?
>> Yes.
The angels, as I call them angel
angels to distinguish them,
very much look
like the paintings
that you see on Valentine's
cards and holiday cards.
They really do have wings.
Although I've never seen
them flap their wings
or use them for flying.
What my understanding
is, is that
the original
Renaissance painters
mistook the aura, the glow
around an angel, for wings
and painted them that way.
And now they appear to us
that way, almost shapeshifting
for our benefit, so that we can
recognize who the players are.
But they come in
all different sizes.
Archangel Michael, for instance,
is roughly 10 feet tall.
He's huge.
And there's Raphael, who's
a little bit shorter.
He's the archangel having
to do with healers.
And Gabriel, who's a female
archangel, by the way--
>> Oh, really?
>> Yeah, right, and so that's
kind of neat because most
of the archangels are male.
And Gabriel is--
how tall are you?
5'8"?
5'9"?
Then there's the
little cherubs that
can help out with things such
as manifesting a soul mate
relationship.
There's specialist angels that
can help us with finances,
with career, with creativity.
Basically, like people,
there's angels for just
about any life area.
>> Just now, when you said
how tall are you, about 5'8"?
Was that the angel
answering you?
>> Yeah, we were
having a conversation.
Yeah.
>> And is it ongoing
now, the conversation?
>> Well, I mean, they
would like it to be.
Sometimes I have
to tune them out.
But sometimes they
just take charge
and just tell me what to do.
They've made tremendous shifts
in my lifestyle for the better.
But I resisted it initially.
>> I was just thinking that.
I was wondering, do
you ever resist them?
Do you ever say, no?
>> Oh, there are times
when I say, you know,
can I just go out
tonight party and--
no, I can't.
They say there's
no time to waste.
They've got me on a very
strict no caffeine, no alcohol,
no animal products diet
to keep my clairvoyance
as big as possible.
Now, not anyone
should feel afraid
that they have to
do those things
and be that radical
to be clairvoyant.
You don't.
They just want my clairvoyance
to be as maximized as possible.
And to do that, you really
have to purify your body quite
a bit.
And they're very concerned.
We are going through some
tremendous Earth changes
right now.
And Archangel Michael,
who's a powerful--
probably the most powerful
angel I've ever met--
is constantly telling
me that this is it.
We're at the 11th hour.
We've passed the fork in the
road in the Earth's time.
And unfortunately, not enough
people are going to wake up.
And here's what the
angels have been
trying to do is get messages
to everybody that it's time
to wake up and take
care of the Earth
and take care of each other.
But not enough
people are believing
that their guidance is real.
They're not believing that
they can make a difference.
They keep they've got an
ego issue that says, who me?
I can't help.
And so they're asleep.
And now the angels have to
work with those who are awake,
the people who are on
the spiritual path.
>> Once you make a
choice to believe them,
do you see more of them?
>> Yes.
>> And you physically feel--
>> Yes, well there's
a couple things.
I think that even hardcore
skeptics wouldn't turn away
help that's offered to
them free of charge.
And so I tell skeptics,
just mentally talk
to angels and ask them for help.
Look, God doesn't get offended.
There's no rules we're breaking.
The angels, we're not
wasting their time
or pulling them off more
important duty when we ask them
for help with everyday things.
The angels say the reason
there's outbreaks of violence
in the world with shootings
in the workplace right
now is because the stress
level of the human race
is at a boiling point.
And they say if you'd let us
help you with the so-called
trivial parts of your
life-- the commute home,
the checkbook balancing, the
argument with your spouse--
if you'd let us get
involved with those things,
we can reduce the stress level.
>> So you mean it's not
trivial to say to an angel,
please send me a
parking space right now.
>> Parking spaces, exactly.
They say a hangnail
is the equivalent
of a seeming terminal illness
because in the balance,
it's all an illusion.
And all they are here to do is
support us to stay at peace.
That's our purpose
is to be at peace.
>> Oh, that's interesting.
>> So that's them working
out God's will to help us
by getting a great parking space
and getting the green lights
and helping you to get to the
babysitter on time to pick up
your child so you don't
get charged overtime.
All those things are
important in the angel's eyes.
>> That's very well
defined, Doreen,
to say that an angel's job
actually is to help us stay
at peace.
>> Yes, the angels are
wonderful intermediaries.
I have found-- and this is after
three degrees in psychology
and taking a whole semester
studying conflict resolution--
that the greatest method to
get through any sort of fight
or irritation with
another person
is to mentally talk to that
person's guardian angels
and ask them to intervene and
to create peace instead of pain.
And we see arguments
resolve where
it's to the point where people
develop a form of amnesia
and they can't remember
what the argument was about.
>> That's great advice--
great, great advice.
>> It works like magic.
And you know, spiritually, if
you're irritated at someone
or you want to murder
them, it's the same.
It's all about fear and attack.
And so the angels want to help
us to have love toward everyone
and to see other people
through their eyes.
The angels are the
president of our fan club.
They see past our surface.
They see past our gender,
our race, our religion,
and all the mistakes
that we think we've made.
And what they see within
us is the beating heart
of the creator, that light,
that eternal goodness
that can never be spoiled.
And the angels want
us to see that.
They said if we would
see that, it would
transform the entire world.
[CHANTING]
>> At the conclusion of the
Phoenix Whole Life Expo,
the lamas prepare to dismantle
their exquisite mandala.
Made of colorful
sands, the artwork
which symbolizes qualities like
wisdom, love, and compassion
has been painstakingly crafted
during the three-day event.
[CHIMES]
Now in a symbolic demonstration,
indicating that nothing in life
is permanent, the monks
offer prayers for peace
and begin the
dismantling process.
[PLAYING CEREMONIAL MUSIC]
At the conclusion of the
ceremony, portions of the sand
will be given to attendees.
The rest will be sprinkled by
the monks on a running river,
sending healing energies of
the mandala through the world.
[CHANTING]
[PLAYING CEREMONIAL MUSIC]
>> I'm Chantal Westerman.
And that's all from Phoenix.
See you again soon at
another Whole Life Expo.
[APPLAUSE]